I'm sharing a quick and easy three-step
framework on the hardest part of B2B
marketing how to get stakeholder buy-in
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business great show
and if you want to check out my free
guides podcasts resources or whenever
you're ready to apply to work with me
check out
samdunning.org so the chances are if
you're listening or watching this
there's a marketing or advertising
Channel you really want leadership at
your B2B company to start investing in
or using the three-part framework we're
going to talk about is the terrible
thing that happens if you don't invest
or start the marketing channel the
unfair advantage that it brings and
thirdly Reporting on results as soon as
possible in this scenario we're going to
talk about SEO but we could flip back to
any marketing or ad Channel you want to
focus on so let's dive straight in
so Step One is leveraging the terrible
thing that will happen if you don't
invest or start this marketing or
advertising strategy so you've got to
think about what terrible thing is going
to happen either directly to your
company
perhaps to your customers or perhaps
internally then leverage that when
talking or presenting to leadership
within your team so I'm using SEO as an
example because it's often pretty
difficult to get buy-in because it's
usually a significant investment
externally to a freelancer or agency or
it takes a lot of resources internally
to actually make it happen with your
website or the on-page and off-page work
link building Etc that goes into it
especially bearing wide SEO is a
long-term solution typically you need at
least three to six months to see decent
results and returns against the time or
investment so I like to leverage pain
and problems so feel free to still as
needed so when presenting something like
SEO I'd say look every time a potential
client an idle Prospect is searching
quite literally for our offer or our
solution then our competitors are above
us likewise if they're comparing us to
an alternative or a common competitor
then again competition sharing above us
or if they're searching directly for the
problems that we fix competitors sure
above us each and every time stealing
traffic to our website opportunities and
inbound leads demo requests or pipeline
meaning that we're missing out a chunk
of the market each and every time a
prospect goes to Google and has that
intent to potentially work with us
and then of course you can flip that on
its head and say look the sooner we
start investing in this Channel with
another company or internally working on
it the sooner we can start bringing back
that market share and every time
prospects have high intent to work with
us have the problems we fix or comparing
us to Alternatives we'll show up top
we'll increase the traffic to our site
and increase the chances of ramping up
inbound leads whilst building up our
brand reputation and so on so what you
want to think about is what are the
couple top problems top terrible things
that will happen if you or your team
doesn't invest directly in this offer
what's going to happen to your company
to your customers or internally or
elsewhere what are those top terrible
things and what are the benefits and the
advantages that will bring to the table
and step two is using the unfair
Advantage so for this I recommend if
you've got a team getting together with
the rest of your team whoever else might
be involved in the process of getting
stakeholder and Leadership buy-in for
this channel that you really want your
company to start investing in or start
working on and leverage all the
advantages that this solution is going
to bring to the table then pick out the
top one or the top two the top couple
that are going to have the most impact
on your business so going back to our
SEO use case then in the seo's case I
would say look the unfair Advantage is
Evergreen content so think when imagine
you're doing a search on YouTube perhaps
you're searching on a certain topic or
how to do something perhaps you've got
an issue perhaps you want to learn a bit
more about a certain subject when you
get those search results on YouTube
after you press enter or go you can see
videos really recently a few days old
you can see videos a few months old or
you can see videos years old and this is
a power of Evergreen content it's just
not a one and done so for example you
might do a LinkedIn post it gets some
traction get some views some engagement
some likes and comments for the first
couple days then it pretty much goes in
together
SEO just like YouTube videos completely
different the content is Evergreen
therefore it's searchable not just now
but it can be found for years to come so
think of each and every page whether
that's a service page an offer page
product page a Blog Page or article on
your website when they're crafted with
the right strategy when they're bearing
in mind what your ideal customers are
searching for when they're searching for
services offers comparing competitors or
Alternatives searching to fix problems
to answer questions then if they're
crafted right they can be super powerful
Evergreen content that can be found on
Google by your Target customers not just
now but for months and years to come
building up brand reputation ramping up
that website traffic and providing you
with inbound leads for years to come in
the future which is something that paid
anal paid ads channels just can't
compete with things like Google paid ads
LinkedIn ads
Etc because you're paying for each and
every click you're not getting that
organic Evergreen impact through the
search results another thing to think
about is at the time recording LinkedIn
have recently rolled out something
called thought leadership ads and now
you can actually advertise personal
profile posts so they actually look
organic in the LinkedIn feed they have
the little caption headline and they
have ad underneath the person's name and
they look very very organic so it really
shows that a lot of companies are
understanding the power of organic the
power of Evergreen and more so yeah you
really want to think about what is that
unfair Advantage get together with
whoever's relevant from your team that
might have some ideas do some research
talk to your customers understand what
they perhaps really love about certain
things that you're not using yet talk to
perhaps competitors or if you know any
other companies that are leveraging the
tools or the systems or the platforms
that you want to invest in
if you can get any juicy insights from
them you can put across in your view
space and then find that one unfair
advantage and really sell the hell out
of it
and step three the last step to getting
leadership buy-in is to show results to
stakeholders as soon as you possibly can
super important especially in the
economic Times we're in now where
there's a big crunch especially in Tech
so proving Worth showing results as soon
as you can making sure budgets are spent
well is super important so in the B2B
space one of the first things I
recommend you do is on your website
inquiry forms or demo requests or
consult request forms add a field for
how did you hear about us reason you
want to do this is because typically
attribution tools like analytics HubSpot
Etc will only show the last point in
which someone converted on your site so
if you're going by those tools they
might say that someone did a Google
search or they clicked an ad or they
came from LinkedIn but it doesn't tell
the full Journey adding this field can
get more Intel so rather than just going
from analytics and it might say they
clicked a Google ad
they might actually type in here
went onto your new marketing channel
that new marketing channel that you just
pitched the leadership might be heard
you on this podcast or saw your YouTube
content on this topic and really wanted
to reach out and speak to you so you get
the juicy details I recommend doing one
more thing in addition to this form when
the inquiry comes in I recommend your
sales team ask how did you stumble upon
us today what was the full route you
took to actually landing on our site and
the really nice one is what made you
take the time to fill in our form as
opposed to going to one of our
competitors because this will give you
hidden insights they'll actually sing
your Praises so they might say look I
really like the work you did with X or I
really like this only about your process
and they'll give you some juicy golden
nuggets that you can leverage in the
sales school so that's one of the first
things you want to do so you can start
seeing that this channel works as soon
as possible
and you want to report on any useful
metrics from the top downwards so from
the SEO use case that might be reporting
on things like increase in organic
traffic increase in session times
increase in key page views and most
importantly the main thing we're going
after here especially in the B2B space
is increase in quality qualified leads
whether that's decent demo requests
decent consult requests or decent calls
in the diary so focus on those key
metrics and start reporting on those as
soon as you're able to use dashboards
use analytics use any relevant tools to
start sharing that with your team
the other thing I recommend you do is
share screenshots share wins so maybe
set up a Google drive folder or similar
take screenshots of every positive thing
that you see so if that's a metric if
that's an improvement in traffic if
certain pages are getting better views
whatever's relevant to the marketing
campaign you're investing in or maybe
you're getting qualitative feedback
maybe customers or prospects that
perhaps you've started a podcast they're
listening in and they're saying really
enjoying this and they are in your
target market take a screenshot of that
message whether that's from LinkedIn or
another Channel and then pop that in
your shared group so perhaps you've got
a slack with leadership or maybe you've
got another channel that you talk to
them with internally
keep an eye of all those positive
screenshots start screenshotting the
demo requests that say how did you hear
about us
and they have the new channel listed in
there likewise if you record sales calls
with gong wingman or similar again take
a note of those any that mention the new
channel get those Snippets recording add
them all into this folder and as soon as
you'll see impact as soon as you're
seeing key metrics key results and most
important those inbound demos or lead or
consort requests come in start reporting
those show results to leadership so they
can really see that this channel is
having an impact all those positive
things where they are metric based or
directly from your prospects or
customers all those feedbacks are going
to be really good for building up
confidence and showing leadership that
this channel is having a positive impact
to revenue and there you have it I hope
you found these three steps to getting
the stakeholder buy-in for your B2B
business on your next Martin campaign of
use as always if you enjoyed the episode
a quick rating or review on your podcast
Channel goes a long way or if you're on
YouTube subscribe is appreciated and for
more free resources goodies or to apply
to work with me check out samdunning.com